****************************
v3.1.0 (March 05, 2026)
****************************

Enhancements
------------
* Modified ``TrendAnalysis._filter()`` to allow ``clip_filter`` to use ``pv_energy``
  when ``pv_power`` is not available. This enables clipping detection for energy-based
  analyses with sub-hourly data.
* Added frequency validation for ``clip_filter`` in ``TrendAnalysis._filter()`` that
  raises a ``ValueError`` if the time series has a median time step greater than 60
  minutes, as clipping detection requires higher resolution data.


Documentation
-------------
* Updated temperature coefficient (``gamma_pdc``) in PVDAQ example notebooks from -0.005 to
  -0.0034 1/K to reflect modern silicon PV module specifications. Updated notebooks include
  ``degradation_and_soiling_example.ipynb``, ``TrendAnalysis_example.ipynb``, and
  ``TrendAnalysis_example_NSRDB.ipynb``.
* Added ``stacklevel`` parameter to all ``warnings.warn()`` calls so that warning
  messages point to user code rather than rdtools internals. Affected modules:
  ``analysis_chains``, ``filtering``, ``soiling``, ``plotting``, ``normalization``,
  ``availability``, and ``clearsky_temperature``.


Requirements
------------
* Updated pvlib requirement in setup.py from "pvlib >= 0.11.0, <0.12.0" to "pvlib >= 0.12.0" (removed upper version restriction).
* Updated pvlib version in requirements.txt from 0.11.0 to 0.14.0
* Removed pandas upper version restriction in setup.py. Now "pandas >= 1.4.4" to support pandas 3.0.
* Removed numpy upper version restriction in setup.py. Now "numpy >= 1.22.4" to support numpy 2.x.
* Updated pandas version in requirements.txt from 2.2.2 to 2.2.3 for python 3.13 compatibility.
* Updated scipy version in requirements.txt from 1.13.1 to 1.14.1 for python 3.13 compatibility.
* Updated h5py version in requirements.txt from 3.11.0 to 3.12.0 for python 3.13 compatibility.
* Updated scikit-learn version in requirements.txt from 1.5.1 to 1.7.2 for python 3.13 and xgboost compatibility.
* Updated plotly version in requirements.txt from 5.23.0 to 6.1.1 for python 3.13 compatibility.
* Updated setuptools-scm version in requirements.txt from 8.1.0 to 9.2.2 for python 3.13 compatibility.
* Updated six version in requirements.txt from 1.16.0 to 1.17.0 for python 3.13 compatibility.
* Updated statsmodels version in requirements.txt from 0.14.2 to 0.14.6 for python 3.13 compatibility.
* Updated threadpoolctl version in requirements.txt from 3.5.0 to 3.6.0 for python 3.13 compatibility.
* Updated tomli version in requirements.txt from 2.0.1 to 2.0.2 for python 3.13 compatibility.
* Updated typing_extensions version in requirements.txt from 4.12.2 to 4.15.0 for python 3.13 compatibility.
* Updated urllib3 version in requirements.txt from 2.5.0 to 2.6.3 for python 3.13 compatibility and to fix security issues.
* Updated xgboost version in requirements.txt from 2.1.1 to 3.1.3 for python 3.13 compatibility.
* Updated fonttools version in requirements.txt from 4.53.1 to 4.58.4 for python 3.13 compatibility.
* Updated idna version in requirements.txt from 3.7 to 3.8 for python 3.13 compatibility.
* Updated joblib version in requirements.txt from 1.4.2 to 1.5.2 for python 3.13 compatibility.
* Updated kiwisolver version in requirements.txt from 1.4.5 to 1.4.6 for python 3.13 compatibility.
* Updated matplotlib version in requirements.txt from 3.9.2 to 3.9.4 for python 3.13 compatibility.
* Updated packaging version in requirements.txt from 24.1 to 26.0 for python 3.13 compatibility.
* Updated patsy version in requirements.txt from 0.5.6 to 1.0.0 for python 3.13 compatibility.
* Updated Pillow version in requirements.txt from 10.4.0 to 12.1.1 for python 3.13 compatibility.
* Updated pyparsing version in requirements.txt from 3.1.2 to 3.2.0 for python 3.13 compatibility.
* Updated pytz version in requirements.txt from 2024.1 to 2025.2 for python 3.13 compatibility.
* Added ``python_requires='>=3.10'`` to ``setup.py`` to enforce minimum Python version
  at install time, matching the supported Python versions in classifiers.
* Updated ``nbval`` test dependency from ``<=0.9.6`` to ``>=0.10.0`` to support pytest 7+
  which requires ``pathlib.Path`` instead of the deprecated ``py.path.local``.

Bug Fixes
---------
* Fixed pandas 3.0 compatibility in ``normalization.py`` by using ``.total_seconds()``
  instead of ``.view('int64')`` with hardcoded nanosecond divisors. Pandas 3.0 changed
  the default datetime resolution from nanoseconds (``datetime64[ns]``) to microseconds
  (``datetime64[us]``). Affected functions: ``_delta_index``, ``_t_step_nanoseconds``,
  ``_aggregate``, ``_interpolate_series``.
* Fixed datetime resolution preservation in ``normalization.interpolate()`` to ensure
  output maintains the same resolution as input (e.g., ``datetime64[us]``).
* Fixed numpy 2.x compatibility in ``soiling.py`` by using ``.item()`` and explicit
  indexing to extract scalar values from numpy arrays, as implicit array-to-scalar
  conversion is deprecated.
* Fixed xgboost 3.x compatibility in ``filtering.xgboost_clip_filter()`` by using
  ``xgb.DMatrix`` with explicit feature names for model prediction.
* Fixed pandas 4.0 deprecation warnings by changing lowercase ``'d'`` to uppercase
  ``'D'`` in Timedelta strings and using ``axis=`` keyword argument for DataFrame
  aggregation methods.


Warnings
--------
* Removed obsolete ``fspath`` deprecation warning filter from ``setup.cfg`` as it is
  no longer needed with ``nbval>=0.10.0``.


Deprecations
------------
* Removed deprecated ``normalization.delta_index`` function (deprecated in v2.0.0).
  The private ``_delta_index`` helper remains available for internal use.
* Removed deprecated ``normalization.check_series_frequency`` function (deprecated in v2.0.0).
  The private ``_check_series_frequency`` helper remains available for internal use.